#Usage Agreement for Happywhale.com

##1. Definitions

By "Usage Agreement", we mean this agreement in its entirety.

By "Happywhale", "Happywhale.com" or ”Happywhale Services” we mean the features and services we make available, including through (a) our website at www.happywhale.com and any other Happywhale branded or co-branded websites (including sub-domains, international versions, widgets, and mobile versions); (b) our Platform; (c) social plugins; and (d) other media, brands, products, services, software, devices, or networks now existing or later developed. Happywhale.com reserves the right to designate, in its sole discretion, that certain of our brands, products, or services are governed by separate terms and not this SRR.

By "Users" we mean individuals who contribute Content to Happywhale, create a login account to access Happywhale, or use any third party authentication to access Happywhale.

By "Platform" we mean a set of APIs and services (such as Content) that enable others, including website operators, to retrieve data from Happywhale or provide data to us.

By "information" we mean facts and other information about you, including actions taken by users and non-users who interact with Happywhale.

By "Content" we mean anything you or other users post, provide or share using Happywhale services, in addition to the website’s "look and feel," layout, data, design, text, software, images, graphics, video and audio media whether generated by users or Happywhale services.

By "data" or "user data" or "user's data" we mean any data, including a user's Content or information that you or third parties can retrieve from Happywhale or provide to Happywhale through Platform.

By "post" we mean post on Happywhale or otherwise make available by using Happywhale.

By "use" we mean use, run, copy, publicly perform or display, distribute, modify, translate, and create derivative works of.

By "application" we mean any application or website that uses or accesses Platform, as well as anything else that receives or has received data from us.  If you no longer access Platform but have not deleted all data from us, the term application will apply until you delete the data.

By "written notice" we mean any written communication between Happywhale and Users, inclusive of any digital medium of communication.

##2. General

Users: Please read the following Usage Agreement prior to contributing to or logging in to Happywhale.com. By using Happywhale, you agree to all of the terms and conditions of this Happywhale Usage Agreement, including the terms, conditions, and notices contained in the "Usage" section of this Usage Agreement. If you do not agree with ANY of the terms or conditions contained herein, please do not use Happywhale.com. Please contact webmaster@happywhale.com with any questions related to this agreement.

Happywhale.com reserves the right to change, modify, add or remove portions of this Usage Agreement or the terms or conditions contained herein. Users are to be notified, and asked to reaffirm agreement with this Usage Agreement when they next login or contribute media. If you find as a User that you are no longer able to meet obligations under the Usage Agreement or that you will no longer be able to use or access Happywhale in a useful manner, please do not use Happywhale.

This Usage Agreement set forth the terms and conditions that apply to your use of Happywhale. By logging in to Happywhale and/or submitting Content to Happywhale, you are deemed to have agreed to comply with all of the terms and conditions of this Usage Agreement. The right to use Happywhale is limited to Users who have agreed to this Usage Agreement and is not transferable to any other person or entity. You are responsible for protecting the confidentiality of your access to Happywhale and for complying with any guidelines relating to security measures designed to prevent unauthorized access as outlined in the Usage Agreement. You are not liable for actions of other users but agree to work with Happywhale to rectify any problems caused by Users who infringe upon the terms of the Usage Agreement. If the User fails to comply with any material term or condition of the Usage Agreement, Happywhale may terminate this Usage Agreement upon written notice if the Subscriber does not cure such noncompliance within sixty (60) days of receiving written notice of the breach.

##3. Usage

Your use of Happywhale constitutes your agreement to all of the terms, conditions, and notices below in addition to the general terms and conditions contained in this Usage Agreement. If you do not agree with these provisions, please do not use Happywhale and request an immediate termination of your account.

As a condition of using Happywhale you agree to abide by all applicable local, provincial, national and international laws and regulations relevant to the use of the Services including, without limitation, any applicable privacy legislation and policies. In addition, you warrant that you will not use the Services for any purpose that is unlawful or prohibited by this Usage Agreement (including, without limitation, any use that infringes another’s copyright rights). You may not use Happywhale in any manner that could damage, disable, overburden or impair the website or any user of the website, or interfere with any other party’s use of the Happywhale.

###Good Faith Data Collection, Reporting, Sharing, and Collaboration

As a User, you have the right to submit Content to Happywhale. Happywhale is a community resource, and its Content is used by a number of different individuals and agencies for a variety of research, conservation and education purposes. For content that is covered by intellectual property rights, like photos and videos (IP content), you specifically give us the following permission: you grant us a non-exclusive, transferable, sub-licensable, royalty-free, worldwide license to use any IP content that you post on or in connection with Happywhale (IP License). While you retain the copyright to your photographic data, you are agreeing to share this information with other Users and to the general public. No requests for Content "hiding" from other Users will be honored by Happywhale, though our security system does prevent Content “tampering” and protects your personal User data. Happywhale is for collaboration, and users must respect the individual research interests of others outside their region of interest.

Derivative Content created through processing of submitted Content such as cropped images, marked-up images and inferences, data and observation from Content is deemed original Content created by Happywhale with all legal copyright protections assigned to Happywhale, except as specifically licensed therein.

In all cases, you will submit Content as completely and as accurately as possible, obtaining permission to use any copyrighted materials before submitting them to the Happywhale. In addition, you will not submit any Content that uses language or imagery (verbal or visual) that is deemed as offensive by anyone for any reason. Happywhale reserves the right to edit all Content to enforce this.

###Location Information and Sharing

When you upload a photo with geographical data (i.e. from a mobile device) or manually geotag your photo, the photo's location can be shown on a map.

###EXIF Data

Exchangeable Image File Format ("EXIF") data is a record of the settings and other relevant metadata inserted by a digital camera when you take a photo or video such as camera type, aperture, shutter speed, focal length, and location, among other information. Unless you turn off EXIF data on your camera or device or remove it from the picture before uploading to Happywhale, Happywhale receives and stores EXIF data.

###Image recognition, automated image processing, and crowd-sourced image processing

We use image recognition algorithms, automated image processing and crowd-sourced image processing to identify Content in your contributions. These processes may involve displaying your images, or derivatives of your images, to users of third party websites such as Zooniverse.org.

###Publications Using Data from Happywhale

In any case where the Content or services of Happywhale are used in any way to contribute to any publication (online or print), Users must make a good faith effort to communicate with Happywhale administration and collaborators, with the possibility of acknowledgement and/or co-authorship. Furthermore, any User taking copyrighted Content directly from Happywhale and using it in any publication or medium must first obtain the written consent of the appropriate copyright holder(s) (such as encounter photographers) and comply with all national and international copyright laws.

###Copyright and Trademark Protection

All Content contained on Happywhale is the property of Happywhale or the individual contributors of the Content, with rights protected by copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws and international treaties. You may not reproduce any of these materials without the prior written consent of Happywhale or contributing User.

###Distributing and Downloading Content

You may not publish, copy, automatically browse or download, display, distribute, post, transmit, perform, modify, create derivative works from or sell in any form or by any means, including, without limitation, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, any Content that you did not personally submit, except as enabled by "share" functions built into Happywhale, as otherwise described in this Usage Agreement, or as expressly permitted under applicable law. You may not use Happywhale, Content obtained from Happywhale, or Content obtained from associated collaborating websites or services to accumulate data for or to promote an unaffiliated collection, compilation, database or directory. You may not “mirror” on any server or website any Content contained on Happywhale, including, without limitation, the home page or result pages without the express and written consent of Happywhale. Use of the Content or services of Happywhale for any purpose not expressly permitted by this Usage Agreement is prohibited.

###Third Party Websites

Hyperlinks to other internet resources are provided for your convenience. Happywhale has selected these resources as having some value and pertinence, but such resources’ development and maintenance are not under the direction of Happywhale. Thus, the content, accuracy, opinions expressed and other links provided by these resources are neither verified by Happywhale administration nor endorsed by Happywhale. Because Happywhale has no control over such websites and resources, you acknowledge and agree that Happywhale is not responsible for the availability of such external websites or resources. In addition, you acknowledge and agree that Happywhale does not endorse and is not responsible or liable for any content, advertising, products or other materials on or available from such websites or resources. Furthermore, you acknowledge and agree that Happywhale will not be liable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused by the use of any such content, products or materials.

##4. Intellectual Property Rights

You acknowledge that Happywhale contains copyrighted material, trademarks, and other proprietary information owned by Happywhale and individual contributors to Happywhale, and that joining as a User does not confer on you any right, title or interest in or to Happywhale, the related documentation or the intellectual property rights relating thereto other than the rights you retain on the material that you directly contributed to Happywhale. Unauthorized copying of any portion of the Happywhale may constitute an infringement of applicable copyright, trademark or other intellectual property laws or international treaties and may result in litigation under applicable copyright, trademark or other intellectual property laws or international treaties and loss of privileges granted pursuant to this Agreement.

##5. Account and Security

You are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your method of accessing the Services.

##6. Disclaimer of Warranty; Limitation of Liability

YOU EXPRESSLY AGREE THAT USE OF HAPPYWHALE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK. NEITHER HAPPYWHALE, ITS AFFILIATES AND COLLABORATORS NOR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, THIRD PARTY CONTENT PROVIDERS OR LICENSORS WARRANT THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE AVAILABLE AT ANY PARTICULAR TIME, UNINTERRUPTED, OR ERROR FREE, NOR DO THEY MAKE ANY WARRANTY AS TO THE RESULTS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED FROM USE OF THE SERVICES, OR AS TO THE ACCURACY, RELIABILITY OR CONTENT OF ANY INFORMATION OR SERVICE PROVIDED THROUGH THE SERVICES. THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF TITLE OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OTHER THAN THOSE WARRANTIES WHICH ARE IMPLIED BY AND INCAPABLE OF EXCLUSION, RESTRICTION OR MODIFICATION UNDER APPLICABLE LAW.

IN NO EVENT SHALL HAPPYWHALE BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY OTHER PERSON FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS OR PROFITS, OR FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF, OR INABILITY TO USE, THE SERVICES, EVEN IF HAPPYWHALE WAS PREVIOUSLY ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY OTHER CLAIM BY A SUBSCRIBER, AUTHORIZED USER, OR ANY OTHER PERSON. THIS WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS, AND YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS WHICH VARY BY LOCATION.

In the event any claim relating to the performance or nonperformance by Happywhale pursuant to this Usage Agreement, or in any other way concerning Happywhale services, is made by a User, the actual damages to which such User may be entitled shall be limited to the lesser of the fees paid by the User for the services rendered or One US Dollar (US $1).

##7. Indemnification

To the maximum extent permitted by law, you agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless Happywhale, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims and expenses, including attorneys' fees, arising out of the use or unauthorized copying of the Services or any of their Content, the violation of this Agreement or any applicable laws or regulations, or arising out of your violation of any rights of a user.

##8. Term and Termination of Agreement

Either party shall have the right to terminate this Usage Agreement at any time by providing notice of termination to the other party in accordance with the Usage Agreement. In the event of termination of this Usage Agreement by either party, you shall have no claims against Happywhale, its affiliates, or any individual contributors to Happywhale. Termination of this Usage Agreement automatically terminates your license to use any Happywhale services, any Content or any other materials contained therein.

##9. Miscellaneous

This Usage Agreement is entire and complete, and no representations, warranties, agreements or covenants, express or implied, of any kind or character whatsoever have been made by either party hereto to the other, except as expressly set forth in this Usage Agreement. Except as provided herein, this Usage Agreement may not be modified or changed unless the same shall be in writing and signed by an authorized officer of the party to be bound thereby.

You may not assign any of your rights or delegate any of your obligations under this Usage Agreement without prior written consent from Happywhale. If any provision of this Usage Agreement is held to be overly broad in scope or duration by a court of competent jurisdiction such provision shall be deemed modified to the broadest extent permitted under applicable law. If any provision of this Usage Agreement shall be held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not, in any way, be affected or impaired thereby. No waiver by either party of any breach or default hereunder shall be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding or subsequent breach or default. The section headings used herein are for convenience only and shall not be given any legal import.

The provisions of Sections 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive termination of this Usage Agreement.

**YOU WILL BE ASKED TO READ, UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS OF THIS USAGE AGREEMENT BEFORE BEING ISSUED AN ACCOUNT.**

